---
layout: page
permalink: /project/digital/2/
title: "Project 2 Deliverable 2 - Software Prototype"
short_title: Project 2.2
active: projects
auto-title: true
---

The software prototype is Phase 2 of the prototyping process.
Refer to Chapter 8 in your book for details on Software Prototyping.
It has a lot of examples and guidance that is much more in depth than this writeup.

Below are a list of different types of software prototypes you can do.

- If your team has 1-3 members, you are required to do one prototype.
- If your team has 4-6 members, you are required to do two prototypes.


## Types of Software Prototypes

#### Game Mechanics

* Use Unity to implement a gameplay mechanic
* Use Excel, Google Sheets, or a program in the language of your choice to demonstrate number-crunching mechanics

These kind of prototypes should be playtested and iterated!
Keep notes on how your design iterates.

#### Aesthetics

* Storboards for cutscenes, complicated play, or other visual sequences
* Concept art of themes, palettes, styles
* An animatic of gameplay elements or player animation, if it is essential to your game idea
* An interface prototype (if your game makes extensive use of interface)
* Audio sketches (talk to me first)

If you are only doing one prototype, it cannot be an aesthetic prototype.

#### Kinesthetics

* Use Unity to implement movement mechanics for your character

This kind of prototypes should be playtested and iterated!
Keep notes on how your design iterates.

#### Technology

Considering the scope of this class and our use of Unity, we probably won't have technology prototypes.
A lot of our technology is already available within Unity.
However if you feel this type of prototype is especially relevant and achievable, please talk to me.

## Deliverables

In addition to an in-person demo of your prototypes, I want each team to submit a writeup describing their digital prototype.
Your writeup should also include responses to some exercises from Chapter 8 in your book, as described below in the rubric.
I'm looking for at least a few pages here.
Be descriptive!



### Rubric

<table class="table table-striped table-bordered">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Points</th>
      <th>Content</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>

<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td markdown="block">
Control Scheme
- A control scheme for your game (See Exercise 8.2 in the book, pg. 231)
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td markdown="block">
Viewpoint Choice
- A choice of viewpoint for your game (See Exercise 8.3 in the book, pg. 234)
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td markdown="block">
Metaphors
- Some potential metaphors, or one solid choice of metaphor, for your game's interface (See Exercise 8.4 in the book, pg. 237)
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td markdown="block">
Feedback Types
- A description of the types of feedback you game needs to communicate to the player (See Exercise 8.7 in the book, pg. 238)
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td markdown="block">
Justification of prototype choice
- A justification for why you chose to do the prototype(s) you did (See Exercise 8.1 in the book, pg. 219)
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td markdown="block">
Demonstration of prototype iteration
- Some information about the playtesting/iteration you employed in the creation of your prototype(s).
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>30</td>
<td markdown="block">
Digital Prototype (in-class demo) (average, if two)

**Unity Game Mechanics**
- Demonstrates mechanic clearly
- Mechanic is playable
- Functionality beyond templates

**Excel Game Mechanics**
- Deep demonstration of economy or other number crunching

**Aesthetics**
- Time and effort demonstrated

**Kinesthetics**
- Demonstrates movement clearly
- Functionality beyond templates
</td>
</tr>


</tbody>
</table>



## Hand-in

I recommend using Google Docs or a similar platform so that everyone on the team can contribute easily.

Please send your writeup to me via email, or give me read access (share it) if it's on a platform like Google Docs.
Plain text, an attachment, or a link to the document are all fine.
See the [Projects]({{ site.baseurl }}/project/) page for the due date.
