---
layout: page
permalink: /project/1/1/
title: "Project 1 Deliverable 1 - Physical Prototype"
---

On Wednesday 4/12 and Friday 4/14 we will be doing physical prototyping.
On Monday we will do more testing and refinement, then playtesting each other's prototypes.

## Writeup

I want each team to submit a writeup describing their physical prototype.
You writeup should include:

* Description of your construction - what pieces did you use to represent your game, and what did that representation look like.
* Description of your foundational rules.
* A list of rules that you tried
  * For each rule: explain the rule, how it worked when you tried it, and whether you decided to keep it.
  * I really want to see a solid explanation of how you iterated on your design.
* Some thoughts on how your prototype stood up to playtesting - how did people (outside your team) respond when they played it.
  * In particular, I'd like to see a list of things your playtesters were confused about, and any thoughts they had on how different features played out.
  * If your playtesters were confused about an aspect of your prototype that shouldn't be an issue with the software prototype, still point it out.

I'm looking for at least a few pages here.
Be descriptive!

I recommend using Google Docs or a similar platform so that everyone on the team can contribute easily.

Please send your writeup to me via email.
Plain text, an attachment, or a link to the document are all fine.

The writeup is due Friday 4/21 by 11:59:59pm.
[The Grading Rubric for this assignment can be found here.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eiFSCYGXVRFIgNMIANjYw9nIQquyIj9FS7R3xNQ80rk/edit?usp=sharing)
