---
layout: page
permalink: /project/1/
title: "Project Deliverable 1 - Physical Prototype"
---

On Friday 1/20 and Monday 1/23 we will be doing physical prototyping.
On Friday you will be constructing and doing some prelimiary testing on your prototypes.
On Monday we will do more testing and refinement, then playtesting each other's prototypes.

## Physical Prototype

The idea behind physical prototyping is to:

1. Start reasoning about tangible aspects of your game.
   Instead of saying that you will have e.g. enemies that inhibit the player, you must come up with examples of enemies you will have and how they will inhibit the player.
2. Create the cheapest possible model that can inform your development process.
   Even if your game's genre and medium is well known, (e.g. if you have 2D side-scrolling game) you still need to make decisions about player controls and camera movement.
   You can use the prototype to consider these (and other!) aspects before you sink time into the software prototype.
3. Rapidly iterate on game features and rules.
   Let's say you plan to have many features in your game including mines that detonate and hurt the player.
   Without a physical prototype, your game must be mostly developed before you can start experiencing how these features affect gameplay.
   If you decide that the mines are more of a nuisance than a fun game feature after playing your software prototype, you have already paid the development time cost for this feature.
   The most important thing to do with your prototype is add and remove game features, even if they are essential to your vision, so that you can evaluate what they add to the experience.

**I do want to see some iteration in your design.**
This means adding features, trying them out, then removing them and trying different features.
If your game has levels, you can do this by making different levels that utilize different features.

### Inexact Representation

Your physical prototype doesn't have to perfectly represent all the aspects of your game.
Many video games are played in real-time, but it can be difficult to simulate this physically when the game level becomes complex.
Making a turn-based version of your real-time game makes it a lot easier to implement your game rules while still allowing you to reason about the mechanics of your real-time game.

The same rule applies to dimensionality - it can be hard to represent a 3D game using a physical prototype.
It may be worthwhile to prototype a 2D version.

## Writeup

I want each team to submit a writeup describing their physical prototype.
You writeup should include:

* Description of your construction - what pieces did you use to represent your game, and what did that representation look like.
* Description of your foundational rules.
* A list of rules that you tried
  * For each rule: explain the rule, how it worked when you tried it, and whether you decided to keep it.
  * I really want to see a solid explanation of how you iterated on your design.
* Some thoughts on how your prototype stood up to playtesting - how did people (outside your team) respond when they played it.
  * In particular, I'd like to see a list of things your playtesters were confused about, and any thoughts they had on how different features played out.
  * If your playtesters were confused about an aspect of your prototype that shouldn't be an issue with the software prototype, still point it out.

I'm looking for at least a few pages here.
Be descriptive!

I recommend using Google Docs or a similar platform so that everyone on the team can contribute easily.

Please send your writeup to me via email.
Plain text, an attachment, or a link to the document are all fine.

The writeup is due Monday 1/30 by 11:59:59pm.
[The Grading Rubric for this assignment can be found here.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eiFSCYGXVRFIgNMIANjYw9nIQquyIj9FS7R3xNQ80rk/edit?usp=sharing)
