---
layout: page
permalink: /project/2/2/
title: "Project 2 Deliverable 2 - Software Prototype"
---

The software prototype is Phase 2 of the prototyping process.
Refer to Chapter 8 in your book for details on Software Prototyping.
It has a lot of examples and guidance that is much more in depth than this writeup.

Below are a list of different types of software prototypes you can do.

- If your team has 1-3 members, you are required to do one prototype.
- If your team has 4-6 members, you are required to do two prototypes.


## Types of Software Prototypes

#### Game Mechanics

* Use UE4 to implement a gameplay mechanic
* Use Excel, Google Sheets, or a program in the language of your choice to demonstrate number-crunching mechanics

These kind of prototypes should be playtested and iterated!
Keep notes on how your design iterates.

#### Aesthetics

* Storboards for cutscenes, complicated play, or other visual sequences
* Concept art of themes, palettes, styles
* An animatic of gameplay elements or player animation, if it is essential to your game idea
* An interface prototype (if your game makes extensive use of interface)
* Audio sketches (talk to me first)

If you are only doing one prototype, it cannot be an aesthetic prototype.

#### Kinesthetics

* Use UE4 to implement movement mechanics for your character

This kind of prototypes should be playtested and iterated!
Keep notes on how your design iterates.

#### Technology

Considering the scope of this class and our use of UE4, we probably won't have technology prototypes.
A lot of our technology is already available within UE4.
However if you feel this type of prototype is especially relevant and achievable, please talk to me.

## Deliverables

In addition to an in-person demo of your prototypes, as a team submit a document to me that includes:

- A justification for why you chose to do the prototype(s) you did (See Exercise 8.1 in the book, pg. 219)
- Some information about the playtesting/iteration you employed in the creation of your prototype(s).
- A control scheme for your game (See Exercise 8.2 in the book, pg. 231)
- A choice of viewpoint for your game (See Exercise 8.3 in the book, pg. 234)
- Some potential metaphors, or one solid choice of metaphor, for your game's interface (See Exercise 8.4 in the book, pg. 237)
- A description of the types of feedback you game needs to communicate to the player (See Exercise 8.7 in the book, pg. 238)

The writeup is due Wednesday 2/8 by 11:59:59pm.
[The Grading Rubric for this assignment can be found here.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1itJBvR6t02GZJhDzY2U-ntmK4ivkP6VIEAJmBbzzEk8/edit?usp=sharing)
