---
layout: page
permalink: /project/2/4/
title: "Project 2 Deliverable 4 - Production"
---

We are entering the Production phase of the project.
This is Step 6 of the Playcentric Design Process.
You will complete four week-long sprints during the Production phase.

## Description

### Sprint 1

You have two options for this first sprint of project development.

#### Option 1 - Return To Physical Prototype

You can return to your physical prototype to iterate on your design, add and playtest additional features.

#### Option 2 - Iterate On Your UE4 Implementation

Build on your digital prototype to start fleshing out your game.

### Sprints 2-4

During the remaining three sprints I expect to see continuing work on implementing the foundation, structure, and formal details of your game in Unreal,
then moving on to refinement if time allows.

## Deliverables

The deliverable for this project milestone consists of two parts (and the structure for each consecutive sprint will be mostly the same):

### 1. Project Management

I want you to use a project management system to assign and track work on your project.
The issue trackers built in to [Github](https://github.com/) and [Gitlab](https://gitlab.com/) are both excellent choices for this.
You can also use [Trello](https://trello.com/) if you prefer.
Any other reasonable issue tracking software is allowable assuming that I am able to access and use it.
Please let me know if you plan to use software other than the three above recommendations.

These sorts of software are set up to be used as an issue tracking solution -
that is, for keeping track of and resolving bugs in a software project in some form of a release stage.
However, it is reasonable (and common) to use them simply to track to-do items.
The difference between an issue and a to-do item is that an issue usually refers to something that is broken, e.g. "using this feature causes the app to crash" while a to-do item can be more nebulous, such as "look into a way that we can add this to our game".
In many Agile paradigms this set of to-do items is referred to as the **Product Backlog**.

#### Expectations

Near the beginning of each sprint I will review the items in your product backlog to get an idea of what you aim to complete by the end of the sprint.
Ideally I would like to see at least one item in the issue tracker assigned to each team member.
Remember that this is a tool to aid you in your development process.
Feel free to add any and all relevant thoughts, comments, and discussion to the issues in your issue tracker.

It's also absolutely fine if you end up planning too little or too much for your sprint.
That's one of the goals of an iterative development framework - you can use your progress on previous sprints to help inform your planning for future sprints.

### 2. Demo

On the due date, you will need to demonstrate your progress in lab.
Mostly I would like to see playable demos!

See [here]({{ "/project/SprintCheckins/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) for some additionally info about sprint checkins.

### Sprint Deadlines

* Sprint 1: 2/24
* Sprint 2: 3/3
* Sprint 3: 3/13
* Sprint 4: 3/17

[The Grading Rubric for this assignment can be found here.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13nfU5f3_lZKRYp10-n3tR8MhPJlIISMw2C1JfINM6Oo/edit?usp=sharing)
