---
layout: page
permalink: /project/5/
title: "Project Deliverable 5 - Playtesting"
---


## Playtesting Session 1

It's not important that you have anything particularly playable or complete.
This is just a chance for you to get some early feedback from your classmates.
I suspect that a lot of feedback will be about adding things that you are planning to add, but you may learn something about an existing mechanic that you hadn't thought about.
And it can help you prioritize what aspects of your game to work on next.

Your fellow classmates are somewhat difficult to classify as playtesters.
They are not members of your design team, nor are they necessarily confidants since you may not know them well.
However, they are all familiar with the playcentric design process, the principles of playtesting, and other game design topics.
They are likely aware of at least what kind of game you are making.
As such it is reasonable to playtest your classmates' games, even if those games are still in the Foundations or Structure stages of development.

I won't ask that you write up a script for this playtesting session, since I'd like to keep it somewhat informal.
Also, you don't really need to explain the playtesting process since you are all familiar with it.
However, you should think about how you can get the most valuable information out of this playtesting session.
Consider setting up test control situations, or modifying your test levels to allow further exploration of your foundational mechanics.

And don't forget that this is just the first playtesting session, and is to some degree an experiment in early playtesting.
The author of our textbook says that you should playtest often and early, so we are going to try it out!
You will have further opportunity to playtest a more final version of your game when we do the second playtesting session, and when we have final project displays during the final exam period.

There will be [a small worksheet/survey for you to fill out](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1B_yCd7u-56y6nWeqOYVG-9v6vofP1bIbQ5On_EyN1V8/edit?usp=sharing) during the playtesting session,
reporting some brief notes on what you learned from the session and how useful it was to playtest this early.
You should all make more detailed notes about the playtesting for your own use.
You can playtest in either the lecture or lab hour.

## Playtesting Session 2

More info coming soon!
