---
layout: page
permalink: /assignments/3/
title: "Assignment 3 - Feature Design Exercise"
---

From *Game Design Workshop* pg. 165, 168.

The exercise from the book is below.

## Exercise 6.9, 6.10: Feature Design Exercise

Think of a feature you would like to see added to one of your favorite games.
I am sure you have plenty of ideas on this one.
It does not matter how far-fetched or technically difficult the idea is at first because
you are not going to actually build it.
Rather you are going to illustrate how it works using storyboards and words.

Create a visual storyboard stepping through the use of the feature idea.
Assemble the storyboard so that it tells a visual story of a player successfully playing the game.
For example, the storyboard for Karaoke Revolution World Party could show all of the interfaces as if a
player starts as a beginner and moves all the way to winning a prize.

## Details

Since I am asking for a visual storyboard, I'll let you submit it a number of ways.

- If you want to draw out the storyboard using software, then submit an image or PDF on Polylearn.
- If your storyboard is on paper, you can scan or photograph it and upload that image to Polylearn.
- Or, you can just hand in your storyboard on paper to me in office hours or after class on any day.
  If you choose this option, however, your deadline is now 5:00pm on the duedate instead of the 11:59pm PolyLearn deadline (since I must be physically present for you to turn in).

For more information on what your storyboard should look like, check the figures on pg. 165 in the book, and the description on pg. 168.
I am looking for one to three images like what you see on pg. 165.

[The PolyLearn page for this assignment is here](https://polylearn.calpoly.edu/AY_2016-2017/mod/assign/view.php?id=368353).
