---
layout: page
permalink: /project/physical/1/
title: "Project 1 Deliverable 1 - Prototype"
short_title: Project 1.1
active: projects
auto-title: true
---

In class we will be doing prototpying of our board games.
This will include a few days for construction, time for testing and refinement, then playtesting each other's prototypes.

## Writeup

I want each team to submit a writeup describing their prototype and the construction process.
I'm looking for at least a few pages here.
Be descriptive!


### Rubric

<table class="table table-striped table-bordered">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Points</th>
      <th>Content</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>

<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td markdown="block">

List of **player experience goals** for your board game (see p. 10-11 in the book)

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td markdown="block">

Description of prototype construction.

- List of materials
- Description of your construction - what pieces did you use to represent your game, and what did that representation look like.

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>20</td>
<td markdown="block">
Description of foundational rules
- Turn-based or how does timing work?
- How does movement work?
- If dice or other random mechanics come into play, how are they used?
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>30</td>
<td markdown="block">
Features/rules and Iteration
- For each rule: explain the rule, how it worked when you tried it, and whether you decided to keep it.
- Examples of how iteration was applied
  - I really want to see a solid explanation of how you iterated on your design.
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>20</td>
<td markdown="block">
Playtesting results
- Include thoughts on playtesting both in and outside of team
- Anything that was confusing to players?
- Gameplay aspects that will transfer well to the final game
- Gameplay aspects that are specific to the physical prototype
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td markdown="block">
Formatting and spelling
- No, or few, spelling, grammar, mistakes
- Clear use of structure like section headings, lists, paragraphs
- No walls of text
</td>
</tr>

</tbody>
</table>



## Hand-in

I recommend using Google Docs or a similar platform so that everyone on the team can contribute easily.

Please send your writeup to me via email, or give me read access (share it) if it's on a platform like Google Docs.
Plain text, an attachment, or a link to the document are all fine.
See the [Projects]({{ site.baseurl }}/project/) page for the due date.
