---
layout: assignment
title: Lab 2
assignment: lab02
permalink: /labs/lab02/
---

Continue off of **Lab 1** for this assignment.

We will be following these video tutorials:

- [Moving the Camera](https://unity3d.com/learn/tutorials/projects/roll-ball-tutorial/moving-camera?playlist=17141)
- [Setting up the Play Area](https://unity3d.com/learn/tutorials/projects/roll-ball-tutorial/setting-play-area?playlist=17141)


## Part 1: Moving the Camera

First, we need to get the camera to follow the player.

- Select the camera, move it up 10 units and tilt it down 45 degrees.
  - Change the **Y** Position and the **X** Rotation.

- Try making the **Player** the "parent" of the **Main Camera**.
  - This is done by dragging the camera on top of the player in the Hierarchy View.
  - Playtest the game. What happens?

- We need a way to have the camera follow the player without also rotating.
- This can't be done with a simple "parent" operation, so let's undo that.
- Create a new script component on the **Main Camera** and call it `CameraController`

- Add a public field `player` of type `GameObject`.
- Add a private field `offset` of type `Vector3`.

- In the `Start()` method, initialize offset to be the difference between the camera position and the player position.
  - Our controller has a field `transform` that has a field `position` so we can get the camera position using `transform.position`.
  - The `player` GameObject also has this `transform` field.
  - What's the difference between two vectors? Well, think about what we normally mean (mathematically) when we say "difference"

- In `Update()`, set the position of the camera to be the player position plus the offset we calculated in `Start()`

- Because this update depends on positions thats might be affected by physics update, we should use `LateUpdate()` instead - change the name of the method.


## Part 2: Setting up the Play Area

Let's add some walls so that the player can't fall off the edge.

- Create a cube and set the scale to x = `0.5`, y = `2`, z = `20.5`.
- Name the cube `WestWall`
- Slide the cube to the edge of the floor.

- Create three additional cubes to serve as the four walls of our play area.
- Use the Edit &rarr; Duplicate function to duplicate one of your walls - this will make the creation process faster.
- The east and west walls face the same direction, but north and south are different.
  - Either rotate, or swap the scale parameters, to create the north/south walls.

- Playtest to confirm the player cannot fall off the map!

