---
layout: assignment
title: Lab 3
assignment: lab03
permalink: /labs/lab03/
active: labs
---

Continue off of **Lab 2** for this assignment.

We will be following these video tutorials:


- [Creating Collectable Objects](https://unity3d.com/learn/tutorials/projects/roll-ball-tutorial/creating-collectable-objects?playlist=17141)
- [Collecting the Pick Up Objects](https://unity3d.com/learn/tutorials/projects/roll-ball-tutorial/collecting-pick-objects?playlist=17141)
- [Displaying the Score and Text](https://unity3d.com/learn/tutorials/projects/roll-ball-tutorial/displaying-score-and-text?playlist=17141)

The written description for this lab should describe most of the steps,
but the videos go over a lot of tips and tricks and minor editor features.
I recommend watching the videos to do this lab!


## Step 1: Create Collectible Objects

- Create a cube and name it Pickup
  - Reduce the scale in all dimensions to 0.5
  - Set the rotation in all axis to 45 degrees
  - Raise it up 0.5 units on the Y axis

---

- Make the Pickup object animate with a rotation that changes every frame
  - Add a script component to the Pickup
  - In the Update() method, call the `Rotate` method on the object's `transform` to rotate the object every frame
  - Use a `new Vector3()` with different amounts for X, Y, and Z that are somewhere around 10 to 50.
  - Multiply (scale) this Vector3 by `Time.deltaTime` to make it so the animation occurs smoothly based on the framerate
  - E.g.: `transform.Rotate (new Vector3 (15, 30, 45) * Time.deltaTime);`

- Test to make sure the cube is spinning

- We want multiple pickups, so make a **Prefab** from this Pickup game object.
  - Make a `Prefabs` folder in the Project Window.
  - Drag the `Pickup` game object into this folder - this action (dragging a game object into the project assets location) creates a **Prefab**
  - Create an empty game object called `Pickups`
  - Make sure the parent object `Pickups` is at the origin (in the Inspector, click the gear to the right of Transform and select Reset)
  - Drag our first pickup object onto this parent object.
  - Copy and paste the `Pickup` object to create 12 objects and place them around the game space.

---

- Make the pickups a different color so they stand out.
  - Make a new material and change it's albedo to a bright color, like yellow.
  - Apply the material to one of the Pickup objects.
  - With that object selected, find "Prefab" in the Inspector View and click "Apply" - this applies the Prefab change to all objects with that Prefab.
  - All of your pickups should change color.

  - Alternatively, you can apply your material directly to the prefab (in the Project Window) to immediately affect all instances of the prefab.


## Step 2: Counting Points

- We want to remove the Pickups when they are hit by the player.
- First make it so that we can detect which objects are Pickups and which aren't.
  - Select the Pickup prefab and in the Inspector Window, click on Tag and select Add Tag...
  - Add a tag called "Pickup"
  - Go back to the Prefab and apply our new Tag.

---

- Use collider callbacks to remove Pickups when they are collided
  - Open the PlayerController script
  - Add a new method `void OnTriggerEnter(Collider other)`
  - This event callback will be called when the player collider hits another collider
  - Check whether the collided object is a Pickup using `other.gameObject.CompareTag ("Pickup")`
  - If the object is a pickup, hide it using `other.gameObject.SetActive (false);`

---

- Playtest the game. What happens?

- The video has a more in-depth explanation of Unity physics, but what we need to do is change the Box Collider of our Prefab to a Trigger.
  - Either edit the Prefab directly, or make the change to one of the Pickup objects and apply it to the Prefab.
  - Under the Box Collider in the Inspector Window, select **Is Trigger**
  - While we're at it, let's optimize the physics of our Pickups
  - Add a RigidBody component to the prefab.
  - Under the RigidBody in the Inspector, check the **Is Kinematic** checkbox
  - This make's it so the picks are "dynamic" (Unity expects them to move, and handles them more efficiently) and "kinematic" (so that gravity and other forces do not affect them)


## Step 3: Display the Score

- We need to keep track of the score.
- Open the PlayerController script component
  - Add a private int field `count`
  - In the `Start()` method, initialize `count` to 0
  - In the `OnTriggerEnter()` method, increment `count` by 1 when a Pickup is picked up

---

- Back in the Unity editor, add a **UI &rarr; Text** element in the Hierarchy Window
  - (It will be added underneath an automatic "Canvas" object and an "EventSystem" object)
  - Rename the text element "Count Text"
  - Change the text color to white in the Inspector Window
  - Change the placeholder text to `Count Text`
  - Click the cross hair under **Rect Transform** to change the Anchor Preset
  - We also want to set the pivor and position, so hold `Shift` and `Alt` (might change on different platforms) and select the top left.

- The text should be in the upper left corner of the screen now, but it is wedged way up against the edge
  - Change the **Pos X** and **Pos Y** values to move the text down and to the right about 10 units

---

- Let's update the text in the Player Controller script whenever something is picked up.
  - First add `using UnityEngine.UI` so we can work with UI code
  - Now add a new field to the controller `public Text countText` to reference the text element
  - Add a function `void SetCountText()` that updates the `countText.text` to `"Count: " + count.ToString();`
  - Call this function whenever `count` changes.
  - Back in the Editor, Set the `Count Text` property of the Player Controller (Script) to the Count Text object we created, using drag-and-drop

---

- Add some text to indicate when the game is won.
  - Add another **UI &rarr; Text** element called "Win Text"
  - Set the color to white
  - Set the alignment to center and middle
  - Set the placeholder text to `Win Text`
  - Change the **Pos Y** value so the text is not on top of the player

---

- Back in the Player Controller, add a reference to this new text
  - In `SetCountText()`, set the "Win Text" to `You Win!` when all Pickups are collected

